Allocation API documentation (#12)
intel/owca: docs/allocation.rst

> ##################################################################################

Reviewer: Transform the warning as in #11, please.

.. code-block:: python

    @dataclass
    class AllocationConfiguration:

        # Default value for cpu.cpu_period [us] (used as denominator).
        cpu_quota_period : int = 100000

        # Number of minimum shares, when ``cpu_shares`` allocation is set to 0.0.
        cpu_shares_min: int = 2                   
        # Number of shares to set, when ``cpu_shares`` allocation is set to 1.0.
        cpu_shares_max: int = 10000               

``Allocator`` structure and ``allocate`` resource callback function
--------------------------------------------------------------------
        
``Allocator`` class must implement one function with following signature:

.. code:: python

    class Allocator(ABC):

        def allocate(self,
                platform: Platform,
                tasks_measurements: TasksMeasurements,
                tasks_resources: TasksResources,
                tasks_labels: TasksLabels,
                tasks_allocations: TasksAllocations,             
            ) -> (TasksAllocations, List[Anomaly], List[Metric]):
            ...

> Allocation interface reuses existing ``Detector`` input and metric structures. Please use `detection document <detection.rst>`_ 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Allocation interface reuses existing ``Detector`` input and metric structures. Please refer to `detection document <detection.rst>`_ 
```

``TasksAllocations`` structure is a mapping from task identifier to allocations and defined as follows:

.. code:: python

    TaskId = str
    TasksAllocations = Dict[TaskId, TaskAllocations]
    TaskAllocations = Dict[AllocationType, Union[float, RDTAllocation]]

    # example
    tasks_allocations = {
        'some-task-id': {
            'cpu_quota': 0.6,
            'cpu_shares': 0.8,
            'rdt': RDTAllocation(name='hp_group', l3='L3:0=fffff;1=fffff', mb='MB:0=20;1=5')
        },
        'other-task-id': {
            'cpu_quota': 0.5,
            'rdt': RDTAllocation(name='hp_group', l3='L3:0=fffff;1=fffff', mb='MB:0=20;1=5')
        }
        'one-another-task-id': {
            'cpu_quota': 0.7,
            'rdt': RDTAllocation(name='be_group', l3='L3:0=000ff;1=000ff', mb='MB:0=1;1=1'),
        }
        'another-task-with-own-rdtgroup': {
            'cpu_quota': 0.7,
            'rdt': RDTAllocation(l3='L3:0=000ff;1=000ff', mb='MB:0=1;1=1'),  # "another-task-with-own-rdtgroup" will be used as `name`
        }
        ...
    }

Please refer to `rdt`_ for definition of ``RDTAllocation``.

> This structure is used as an input representing actually enforced configuration and as an output for desired allocations that will be applied in the current ``AllocationRunner`` iteration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This structure is used as an input representing currently enforced configuration and as an output representing desired allocations that will be applied in the current ``AllocationRunner`` iteration.
```

``allocate`` function  may return ``TaskAllocations`` for some tasks only. Resources allocated to tasks that no returned ``TaskAllocations`` describes will not be affected.

> The ``AllocationRunner`` is stateful, relies on operating system to store the state. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ``AllocationRunner`` is stateful and relies on operating system to store the state. 
```

> Note that, if ``OWCA`` service is restarted, then already applied allocations will not be reset (

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that, if ``OWCA`` service is restarted, then already applied allocations will not be reset 
```

> current state of allocation on system will be read and provided as input).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(current state of allocation on system will be read and provided as input).
```
(new line after "(" is rendered as a space)

Supported allocations types
---------------------------

Following built-in allocations types are supported:

- ``cpu_quota`` - CPU Bandwidth Control called quota (normalized)
- ``cpu_shares`` - CPU shares for Linux CFS (normalized)
- ``rdt`` - Intel RDT (raw access)

The built-in allocation types are defined using following ``AllocationType`` enumeration:

.. code-block:: python

    class AllocationType(Enum, str):

        QUOTA = 'cpu_quota'
        SHARES = 'cpu_shares'
        RDT = 'rdt'

cpu_quota
^^^^^^^^^

> ``cpu_quota`` is normalized in respect to whole system capacity (all logical processor) that will be applied on cgroups cpu subsystem

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``cpu_quota`` is normalized in respect to whole system capacity (all logical processor) and will be applied using cgroups cpu subsystem
```

using CFS bandwidth control.

> For example, with default ``cpu_period`` set to **100ms** on machine with **16** logical processor, setting ``cpu_quota`` to **0.25**, means

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, with default ``cpu_period`` set to **100ms** on machine with **16** logical processor, setting ``cpu_quota`` to **0.25**, means that
```

hard limit on quarter on the available CPU resources, will effectively translated into **400ms** quota.

Base ``cpu_period`` value is configured in ``AllocationConfiguration`` structure during ``AllocationRunner`` initialization.

> Formula for calculating quote for cgroup subsystem:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Formula for calculating quota for cgroup subsystem:
```

.. code-block:: python

    effective_cpu_shares = task_cpu_shares_normalized * (cpu_shares_max - cpu_shares_min) + cpu_shares_min

Refer to `Kernel sched-design <https://www.kernel.org/doc/Documentation/scheduler/sched-design-CFS.txt>`_ document for further reference.

rdt
^^^

.. code-block:: python

    @dataclass
    class RDTAllocation:
        name: str = None  # defaults to TaskId from TasksAllocations
        mb: str = None  # optional - when no provided doesn't change the existing allocation
        l3: str = None  # optional - when no provided doesn't change the existing allocation

You can use ``RDTAllocation`` structure to configure Intel RDT available resources.

``RDTAllocation`` wraps resctrl ``schemata`` file. Using ``name`` property allow to one to specify name for control group to be used
for given task to save limited CLOSids and isolate RDT resources for multiple containers at once.

``name`` field is optional and if not provided, the ``TaskID`` from parent structure will be used.

Allocation of available bandwidth for ``mb`` field is given format:

.. code-block::

    MB:<cache_id0>=bw_MBps0;<cache_id1>=bw_MBps1

> where bw_MBps0 expresses bandwidth in MBps, or in bandwidthX in percentage if Software Controller is not available: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
where ``bw_MBps0`` expresses bandwidth in MBps, or in bandwidthX in percentage if Software Controller is not available: 
```

> where bw_MBps0 expresses bandwidth in MBps, or in bandwidthX in percentage if Software Controller is not available: 

Reviewer: As far as I understand Software Controller must be explicitly enabled as mount option. Therefore I think that it would be more reasonable to describe percentage-based approach first and state that SC must be enabled in order to use MBps values.

Author: done

.. code-block::

    MB:<cache_id0>=bandwidth0;<cache_id1>=bandwidth1

For example:

.. code-block::

    MB:0=20;1=100

Allocation of cache bit mask for ``l3`` field is given format:

.. code-block::

    L3:<cache_id0>=<cbm>;<cache_id1>=<cbm>;...

For example:

.. code-block::

    L3:0=fffff;1=fffff

Note that the configured values are passed as is to resctrl filesystem without validation and in case of error, warning is logged.

Refer to `Kernel x86/intel_rdt_ui.txt <https://www.kernel.org/doc/Documentation/x86/intel_rdt_ui.txt>`_ document for further reference.

> Extended topology information

Reviewer: Whole section should be moved to https://github.com/intel/owca/blob/master/docs/detection.rst#platform-type-definition

Author: The document here is just indication, the Platform object will be extend - not strict reference

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Platform object will provide enough information to be able to construct raw configuration for rdt resources, including:

- number of cache ways, number of minimum number of cache ways required to allocate
- number of sockets

based on ``/sys/fs/resctrl/info/`` and ``procfs``

.. code-block:: python

    class Platform:
        ...

>         rdt_min_cbm_bits: str

Reviewer: More information is available. Do we want to include it? See kernel docs:

> The minimum bandwidth percentage value for each cpu model is predefined
> and can be looked up through "info/MB/min_bandwidth". The bandwidth
> granularity that is allocated is also dependent on the cpu model and can
> be looked up at "info/MB/bandwidth_gran". The available bandwidth
> control steps are: min_bw + N * bw_gran. Intermediate values are rounded
> to the next control step available on the hardware.

Author: Actually I don't - IMHO we should copy the description of fields but rather point to original documentation.

        rdt_cbm_mask: str
        rdt_min_bandwidth: str
        ...

Refer to `Kernel x86/intel_rdt_ui.txt <https://www.kernel.org/doc/Documentation/x86/intel_rdt_ui.txt>`_ document for further reference.

``TaskAllocations`` metrics
----------------------------

> Returned ``TaskAllocations`` will be encoded as metrics and stored using storage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Returned ``TaskAllocations`` will be encoded as metrics and logged using ``Storage``.
```

> When stored using `KafkaStorage` returned ``TaskAllocations`` will be encoded in ``Prometheus`` exposition format:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When stored using ``KafkaStorage`` returned ``TaskAllocations`` will be encoded in ``Prometheus`` exposition format:
```
